Near-Realtime Knowledge Update on the Legal
Search Platform
Dung Dang1,2, Hung Ngo3, Dung A. Tran1,2, Vuong T. Pham4, Hien D. Nguyen1,2,*
1University of Information Technology, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam
2Vietnam National University, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam
3Technological University of Dublin, Dublin, Ireland
4Insitute of Data Science and Artificial Intelligence, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam
Email: dungdv@uit.edu.vn, hung.ngo@tudublin.ie, dungta@uit.edu.vn, vuong.pham@sgu.edu.vn, hiennd@uit.edu.vn
Abstract—Updating legal information is crucial to ensure the Updating legal documents often encounters the following
accuracy and timeliness of legal regulations. This study intro- situations. Firstly, a new document is issued to completely
duces a platform capable of updating legal information based on
replace the content of an old document, such as Decree
the latest legal documents to swiftly assist users in accessing new
100/2019/ND-CP1 completely replacing Decree 46/2016/ND-
regulations during legal inquiries. The platform automatically
identifies newly enacted content, determines update requirements CP 2. In these cases, the platform does not need to identify
and changes from these documents, maps specific outdated con- detailed changes for the update but will delete the entire
tent needing replacement, and updates legal knowledge through content of the old document and represent the new document
corresponding knowledge graph updates. Experiments have been
to replace it in the knowledge base.
conducted, yielding positive results to demonstrate the feasibility
This research introduces a platform capable of supporting
of this approach.
the updating of legal documents when new documents are
Index Terms—Legal Information, Knowledge Graph, Ontology,
Knowledge-based systems, Knowledge Update. issued. This platform not only helps accurately identify the
parts of the content that need to be replaced but also updates
the information quickly and accurately. In the legal system
I. INTRODUCTION
in Vietnam, new legal documents are often issued to adjust,
Today, AI technology has been widely applied in the amend, or supplement certain points in the old document
legal field, bringing significant benefits [5]–[7]. In addition, without replacing the entire content. This requires the support
intelligent legal query systems can support legal decision- platform to have the ability to accurately process and recognize
making quickly and accurately. These systems help reduce these changes to ensure the legal information is updated
the workload for humans, while also improving efficiency efficiently and promptly.
and reliability in handling legal issues [4]. However, queries
II. RELATED WORK
and decisions must always be based on the most recent legal
documents. This requires legal information to be continuously Nowadays, to meet the continuous demand for information
updated to avoid obsolescence and inaccurate results. updates across various fields, research on knowledge updating
The platform of this study uses a knowledge graph as the has been conducted [3], yielding several notable results as
knowledge base for the system [12], [13]. Legal documents are follows:
organized and represented as a knowledge graph. The ques- [15] proposed a method for updating embeddings in
tions from end-users are converted into graphs that represent dynamic Knowledge Graphs (KGs). Those graphs undergo
the semantics of the questions. The platform then searches for frequent changes with the addition or removal of nodes and
subgraphs in the knowledge base that match the knowledge edges. Instead of recalculating embeddings from scratch after
graph of the questions to provide answers to the users [13], each minor change, the study focuses on updating only the
as illustrated in Figure 1. embeddings related to new changes. This approach saves time
In reality, legal documents are constantly changing, updat- and resources while maintaining the quality of Knowledge
ing, and improving to keep up with societal developments Graphs as they continue to evolve. However, effective imple-
and the needs of the people. The process of updating legal mentation of this method requires substantial historical data
information is diverse, potentially involving the issuance of a on KG changes.
new document that replaces the entire content of the old one, or Similarly, the authors in [2] built an AIR framework to
simply adjusting, amending, or supplementing specific parts. adaptively update embeddings for dynamic KGs. This method
This creates many challenges and difficulties for the process measures the importance score of each triple in the KG
of updating legal information, which can be time-consuming
1Decree No. 100/2019/ND-CP on Administrative penalties for road traffic
and labor-intensive for humans.
and rail transport offences, 2019
2Decree No. 46/2016/ND-CP on administrative penalties for road traffic
*Corresponding author: Hien D. Nguyen offences and rail transport offences, 2016

Fig. 1. Legal Search Platform Overview.
and, based on this score, AIR selects a subset of triples of new documents that amend or supplement existing content.
most affected by new information for updating. Besides, The proposed platform aims to identify specific changes within
AIR updates the embeddings without needing to retrain the these new documents and seamlessly integrate them into the
entire model from scratch, thus saving time and resources. corresponding knowledge graph, thereby ensuring accurate
However, the effectiveness of AIR depends on the accuracy and timely information representation.
of the importance scores assigned to each triple and may face
challenges when handling large KGs. III. KNOWLEDGE UPDATE
The study in [19] discussed a method that uses exceptions A. Text Analysis Techniques
to modify existing rules instead of directly changing those
To analyze the content and the required changes in the legal
rules. This approach helps maintain the integrity of the foun-
documents, this research develops a unique method to analyze
dational knowledge and can be more efficient and manageable
updated documents, aiming to identify the requirements and
compared to traditional knowledge update methods. By using
determine the positions that need to be changed.
RE models, this method provides a more suitable semantic
foundation for rule updates. However, it is a highly complex
method and poses challenges in accurately identifying and
representing exceptions.
The study in [9] proposed a new method, called StableKE,
for efficiently updating knowledge in large language models
(LLMs). This method utilizes Semantic Paraphrase Enhance-
ment and Contextual Description Enrichment strategies to
augment knowledge. However, the effectiveness of this method
heavily relies on the quality of the data used for training
and evaluation. Moreover, StableKE does not provide detailed
information on the decision-making process.
[10] presented the UnKE method for updating unstructured
knowledge in large language models. This method uses key-
Fig. 2. Simulation of the Action Identification Process.
value pairs at the layer level to represent and edit unstructured
knowledge effectively and flexibly. However, this method de- 1) Identifying the Set of Words Describing Document Mod-
pends on the architecture of the LLM and requires adjustments ification Actions: Identifying the main action of a document
when applied to new LLM models. Additionally, it lacks item, as illustrated in Figure 2, is a crucial step in understand-
transparency and has limitations in terms of explainability. ing the implications of changes in legal texts. The specific
Automating the process of updating legal information can steps include:
help monitor, analyze, and update changes in legal documents, a. Collecting Key Phrases
thereby supporting legal professionals and the public in access- • Data Source: Collect key phrases that are the main
ing information easily and accurately. This not only saves time verbs in sentences from the Amending and Supplementing
and effort but also improves the effectiveness of applying and Law on the Promulgation of Legal Normative Documents.
complying with the law. Data sources are collected from legal databases and govern-
Existing methods for automatic and rapid knowledge updat- ment websites.
ing often prove inadequate or require substantial implementa- • Extraction: Extract key phrases related to actions
tion effort. This is particularly evident in the domain of legal from document items.
knowledge, where research on knowledge updates is limited, b. Grouping Key Phrases
and adapting methods from other fields is challenging. This • Action Classification: The collected key phrases will
study focuses on incremental updates triggered by the issuance be grouped into different types of actions such as amendments,

additions, replacements, and repeals. This classification helps
the system easily identify and process changes in legal texts.
Due to the precise language used in legal texts, the col-
lection and classification of key phrases will achieve high
accuracy. This reduces errors in identifying and processing
changes. It helps the system quickly and accurately identify Fig. 4. Simulation of the Document Segmentation Process.
the actions required for legal texts. Grouping key phrases by
action also improves the efficiency of the document updating
1) Break down the new text into document items:: Legal
process.
documents will be divided into document items, as shown in
Figure 4. Document items are components within a document
that represent specific content (such as a point or clause
without containing subpoints) within that document.
2) Identifying the Primary Actions of Document Items:
The sophisticated text analysis technique described in Section
3.A.1 is utilized to accurately identify the primary actions
of the specified document items. These actions, which may
Fig. 3. Simulation of the Object Identification Process.
include amendments, updates, and other modifications, are cru-
2) Identifying Accompanying Objects: Identifying the ac- cial for understanding the changes within the legal documents.
companying objects of the actions determined above or in Following identification, these actions are systematically cat-
other words, the specific positions in the old document that egorized into types of changes, collected, and classified as
the document item refers to, as illustrated in Figure 3, is a follows:
crucial step to ensure that all changes are made accurately Type 1: Content Modifications (Amendments)
and consistently. The steps include: This type of amendment involves making changes to the
• Context Analysis: Analyze the context of key phrases existing content of the legal document. It includes the actions
and surrounding content to ensure the identified position is described in Table I as follows:
accurate and relevant.
• Determining Scope: Identify the scope of the para- TABLE I
graph, clause, or point that will be affected by the change. This SUMMARY OF CONTENT MODIFICATIONS
includes determining the relevant sections in the old document
No. AmendmentCategory Description
and ensuring that all changes are applied within the correct
1 Amendment of Articles Modifying specific articles within the
scope.
existing legal document to reflect new
Example: a) Amend the opening paragraph of Clause 3, or updated information
Article 44 as follows: ”3. A fine ranging from VND 2,000,000 2 Amendment of Clauses Changing the content of specific
clauses within a particular article to
to VND 3,000,000 shall be imposed on the train driver,
ensure clarity or accuracy
train captain, vice train captain responsible for safety for 3 Amendment of Points Modifying the content of specific
committing one of the following violations:”; The specific points within a clause to update or
correct the information
object to be amended will be ”Clause 3, Article 44”.
4 Replace Phrases Substituting certain phrases within the
3) Determining the Content of Changes: Accurately deter- documenttoreflectnewterminologyor
mining the scope of changes required: correct errors
5 Remove Phrases Deleting specific phrases from the doc-
• Context Analysis: Analyzing the context helps the
ument that are no longer relevant or
system better understand the implications of the changes and accurate
ensures that all changes are executed correctly. 6 Amendment of Article Changing the titles of specific articles
Example: ”23. Amend the opening paragraph and Point a Titles to better represent the content or pur-
pose of the article
of Clause 3 of Article 44 as follows: a) Amend the opening
7 Amendment of Clause Modifying the titles of specific clauses
paragraph of Clause 3, Article 44 as follows: ”3. A fine Titles to improve clarity or accuracy
ranging from VND 2,000,000 to VND 3,000,000 shall be 8 Amendment of Intro- Changing the introductory paragraphs
ductory Paragraphs ofspecificclausesorarticlestoprovide
imposed on the train driver, train captain, vice train captain
better context or clarity
responsible for safety for committing one of the following
violations:”;” The change here only applies to the opening
paragraph of the Clause, not the entire content of the Clause. Type 2: Content Additions (Additions)
This type of amendment involves adding new content to the
B. Analyzing Amendments
legal document. It includes the actions described in Table II
Analyzing the changes based on the newly issued legal as follows:
documents is the crucial first step. To achieve this, we need Type 3: Content Repeals (Repeals)
to identify the different types of changes that may occur in This type of amendment involves removing content from
Vietnamese legal texts. To accomplish this: the legal document. It includes the actions described in Table

TABLE II chief conductors responsible for safety who commit one of the
SUMMARY OF CONTENT ADDITIONS following violations:”
• Specific Item: The item to be amended is Clause 3,
No. Addition Category Description
Article 44, with the old content retrieved from the system.
1 Addition of Points Adding new points to the existing
clauses to incorporate new information • Scope of Changes: The system identifies that the scope
or regulations of the change is limited to the introductory paragraph of
2 Addition of Clauses Incorporating new clauses into the ex-
the clause, not the entire clause.
isting articles to expand on or clarify
existing information
3 Addition of Articles Adding new articles to the legal docu- D. Updating the Knowledge Graph
ment to introduce entirely new sections
or topics The content of legal documents is stored in the form of
knowledge graphs, where conceptual keyword clusters serve
as nodes and the relationships between them are the edges
III as follows: of the graph. This knowledge graph forms the foundational
knowledge base for the legal query system. The process
TABLE III of constructing a knowledge graph involves converting legal
SUMMARY OF CONTENT REPEALS documents provided by users into knowledge graphs that
represent the content of the legal documents. This process is
No. Repeal Category Description illustrated in Figure 5 and has been presented in the study
1 Repeal of Points Removingspecificpointsfromthedoc-
[12] The knowledge graph is composed of a set of triples
ument that are outdated, irrelevant, or
redundant that represent concepts and the relationships between them,
2 Repeal of Clauses Eliminating specific clauses from the facilitating faster and more accurate analysis and processing
document that are no longer applicable
of information.
or necessary
3 Repeal of Articles Deleting entire articles from the legal Updating legal information in the knowledge base involves
document to streamline the content or updating the knowledge graph based on the changes that have
remove obsolete sections
been analyzed, performed according to various types. In other
words, it involves updating the triples related to the changed
Example: content. This is carried out according to the following types
a) Amendment of Point e, Clause 2, Article 28 as follows: of updates:
”e) Not numbering seats, beds on passenger cars according Type 1: Content Modifications (Amendments)
to regulations;” Content modifications involve making changes to the exist-
Through the parsing technique, the research identifies that ing content in the knowledge base. This process is illustrated in
this document item falls under the category of ”Amendment.” Figure 6 and is carried out according to the following specific
steps
C. Mapping Changes
KnowledgeBase = [ALL_TRIPLES_KNOWLEDGE_BASE]
Mapping the changes from the new document to the old one
is crucial for identifying specific items and content that need • Step 1: Identify old triples
to be modified. This process involves:
OldTriples = EMPTY_LIST
• Identifying Specific Items: Accurately pinpointing the FOR Triple IN KnowledgeBase:
IF ShouldReplace(Triple):
location of the content to be modified in the old document
ADD Triple TO OldTriples
using the technique outlined in Section III-A2. This RETURN OldTriples
allows the system to retrieve the relevant content from
the stored old document. • Step 2: Remove old triples
• Scope of Changes: Employing the method described FOR Triple IN OldTriples:
in Section III-A3 to define the scope of the required REMOVE Triple FROM KnowledgeBase
RETURN KnowledgeBase
changes based on the retrieved old content, ensuring that
all modifications are fully and accurately updated. • Step 3: Identify parent entities
Once these two steps are completed, the platform updates the
ParentEntities = EMPTY_LIST
new content in conjunction with the old content to create the FOR Entity IN KnowledgeBase:
most current version of the document. IF IsParent(Entity, NewTriple):
ADD Entity TO ParentEntities
Example:
RETURN ParentEntities
a) Amendment of the introductory paragraph of Clause 3,
Article 44: • Step 4: Implement changes
“3. A fine ranging from 2,000,000 VND to 3,000,000 VND
ADD NewTriple TO KnowledgeBase
shall be imposed on train drivers, chief conductors, and deputy RETURN KnowledgeBase

Fig. 5. Process of constructing a knowledge graph from legal documents.
Fig. 8. Simulation of the Graph Repeal Process.
Fig. 6. Simulation of the Graph Amendment Process.
• Step 2: Remove triples
Type 2: Content Additions (Additions)
FOR Triple IN RelatedTriples:
Content additions involve integrating new information into
REMOVE Triple FROM KnowledgeBase
the existing knowledge base, or in other words, adding new RETURN KnowledgeBase
triples to the system. This process is illustrated in Figure 7
and is carried out through the following specific steps: IV. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
To verify the effectiveness of the platform, the study con-
ducted specific experiments with road traffic laws, an area
frequently updated and revised. The chosen subject of study
was Decree 123/2021/ND-CP 3 (The updated content replacing
Decree 100 on road traffic regulations.), issued to amend
and supplement certain provisions of Decree 100/2019/ND-
CP 4 related to traffic violations and penalties. The experiment
aimed to evaluate the platform’s capability in identifying and
analyzing change requests in new legal texts, as well as
Fig. 7. Simulation of the Graph Addition Process.
accurately updating these changes in the system’s knowledge
• Step 1: Identify parent entities base, specifically its knowledge graph.
ParentEntities = EMPTY_LIST
FOR Entity IN KnowledgeBase: TABLE IV
IF IsParent(Entity, NewTriple): DETAILS OF DECREE DECREE 100/2019/ND-CP AND DECREE
ADD Entity TO ParentEntities 123/2021/ND-CP
RETURN ParentEntities
• Step 2: Implement changes Decree 100/2019/ND-CP Decree 123/2021/ND-CP
ADD NewTriple TO KnowledgeBase Chapter 5 1
RETURN KnowledgeBase
Article 86 1
Type 3: Content Repeals (Repeals) Clause 442 36
Content repeals involve removing information from the Point 1354 116
system’s knowledge base, specifically by deleting the triples
related to the content being removed. This process is illustrated
The platform analyzed the content of Decree 123, identify-
in Figure 8 and is carried out through the following specific
ing change requests, additions, or deletions. Ultimately, the
steps:
platform updated these changes in the system’s knowledge
• Step 1: Identify related triples
RelatedTriples = EMPTY_LIST 3Decree No. 123/2021/ND-CP on Amending and supplementing some
FOR Triple IN KnowledgeBase: articles of decrees provisions on penalties for administrative violations in the
IF IsRelated(Triple, ContentIdentifier): marine region, road, rail traffic, and domestic airline, 2021
ADD Triple TO RelatedTriples 4Decree No. 100/2019/ND-CP on Administrative penalties for road traffic
RETURN RelatedTriples and rail transport offences, 2019

graph, ensuring accurate and consistent integration of new or with a terminal tag but the account balance is insufficient
information. to pay when passing through the electronic toll lane) to enter
The experimental results demonstrated the platform’s suc- the lane dedicated to electronic toll collection at toll stations;”
cess in identifying and analyzing change requests in Decree replacing the old content: “c) Operating a vehicle that does
123. Specifically, the platform identified 128 items requiring not meet the conditions for electronic toll collection to enter
changes, including modifications, additions, and removals, the lane dedicated to electronic toll collection at toll stations.”
totaling 340 points, sections, and articles. Detailed results are The new content clearly specifies the cases where the
provided in Table V and Figure 9.. vehicle does not meet the toll collection conditions, making it
easier for readers to understand and apply in practice. In the
updating process, additional triples will be added as follows:
• vehicle → without → terminal tag
• terminal tag → insufficient → payment
This experiment illustrates the platform’s capability to effec-
tively identify and update changes in legal documents, proving
the feasibility and potential of the platform in supporting legal
experts and regulatory agencies in promptly and accurately
updating legal information.
V. CONCLUSIONS
This platform has proven effective in updating legal docu-
Fig. 9. The quantity of the paltform’s updating in Decree 123. ments promptly and accurately with the latest legal documents.
Analyzing and mapping changes, combined with updating
the corresponding knowledge graph, ensures that all legal
TABLE V
SUMMARY OF DOCUMENT CHANGES amendments are reflected accurately and timely. Moreover,
this method avoids the need to update the entire knowledge
Change Type Number Number Update base, focusing only on the relevant knowledge graph, thus
of items of affected Type saving time and resources. Experimental results demonstrate
requiring items
the platform’s ability to efficiently identify and process a large
replacement
Amendment of Articles 9 156 volume of changes.
Amendment of Points 44 48 Amendments In the future, the research focus on fully automating the
Amendment of Clauses 22 62
knowledge update process within the platform under the
Replace Phrases 19 19
Remove Phrases 4 4 guidance of domain experts. This automation will encompass
Amendment of Article 1 1 the detection of newly released legal documents and the
Title
subsequent processing of these documents to ensure timely
Amendment of Clause 1 1
Title knowledge integration. Furthermore, the platform’s applicabil-
Amendment of Intro- 3 3 ity will be expanded to encompass a wider range of domains,
ductory Paragraphs
thereby enhancing its versatility.
Addition of Points 9 9
Additions
Addition of Clauses 6 12
Repeal of Points 7 15 ACKNOWLEDGMENT
Repeal of Clauses 2 2 Repeals
Repeal of Articles 1 8 This research is funded by VNUHCM - University of
Total 128 340 Information Technology (UIT) under grant number D1-2023-
04.
In Decree 123, the platform recognized 128 items requiring
modification including various types of changes ranging from
REFERENCES
amendments, additions, to repeals of specific clauses and [1] C. Wewer, F. Lemmerich, M. Cochez, “Updating Embeddings for
points. Based on those 128 items, the system updated 340 Dynamic Knowledge Graphs,” 2021.
articles, clauses, and points. They have been modified, added, [2] Z. Jia, H. Li, L. Chen, “AIR: Adaptive Incremental Embedding Updating
for Dynamic Knowledge Graphs,” In: X. Wang et al. (Eds.), Database
or repealed during the update process. Moreover, the update
Systems for Advanced Applications. DASFAA 2023, Lecture Notes in
process successfully updated 518 triples out of a total of 1582 Computer Science, vol. 13944, Springer, Cham, pp. 300–312, 2023.
triples in the knowledge base of road traffic laws. DOI: 10.1007/978-3-031-30672-3 41.
[3] N.Zhang,Y.Yao,B.Tian,etal.,“AComprehensiveStudyofKnowledge
Example: In point b of clause 3, article 2, it is required to
Editing for Large Language Models,” arXiv, 2401.01286, 2024.
change as follows: [4] D. Szostek and M. Zalucki, “Legal Tech: Information Technology tools
“b) Amend point c of clause 4, article 5 as follows: in the administration of justice,” Nomos, 2021.
[5] G. Governatori, T. Bench-Capon, B. Verheij, et al., “Thirty years of
“c) Operating a vehicle that does not meet the conditions
Artificial Intelligence and Law: the first decade,” Artificial Intelligence
for electronic toll collection (vehicle without a terminal tag and Law, vol. 30, no. 4, pp. 481–519, 2022. Springer.

[6] G. Sartor, M. Araszkiewicz, K. Atkinson, et al., “Thirty years of Arti- system for introducing law students with legal drafting,” Artificial
ficial Intelligence and Law: the second decade,” Artificial Intelligence Intelligence and Law, vol. 31, no. 4, pp. 829–863, 2023.
and Law, vol. 30, pp. 521–557, 2022. Springer. [15] F. Krause, K. Kurniawan, E. Kiesling, et al., “Leveraging Semantic Rep-
[7] S. Villata, M. Araszkiewicz, K. Ashley, et al., “Thirty years of artificial resentations via Knowledge Graph Embeddings,” Artificial Intelligence
intelligence and law: the third decade,” Artificial Intelligence and Law, in Manufacturing: Enabling Intelligent, Flexible and Cost-Effective
vol. 30, pp. 561–591, 2022. Springer. Production Through AI, pp. 71–85, Springer, 2023.
[8] M. Slota and J. Leite, “Exception-Based Knowledge Updates,” SloTa
[16] H. Nguyen, V. Pham, H. Q. Ngo, A. Huynh, B. Nguyen, J. Machado,
2017, arXiv, 1706.00585, 2017.
“Intelligent search system for resume and labor law,” PeerJ Computer
[9] N. Zhang, Y. Yao, S. Deng, “Knowledge Editing in Large Language
Science, vol. 10, e1786, 2024.
Models,” LREC-COLING 2024 Tutorials, pp. 33-41, 2024.
[17] T. H. Nguyen, H. D. Nguyen, V. T. Pham, et al., “Legal-Onto: An
[10] J. Deng, Z. Wei, L. Pang, H. Ding, H. Shen, and X. Cheng, “UnKE:
Ontology-based Model for Representing the Knowledge of a Legal
Unstructured Knowledge Editing in Large Language Models,” arXiv,
Document,” Proceedings of 17th International Conference on Evaluation
2405.15349, 2024.
of Novel Approaches to Software Engineering (ENASE 2022), Online
[11] H. Q. Ngo, H. D. Nguyen, and N. A. Le-Khac, “Building legal
streaming, pp. 426–434, 2022, Scitepress.
knowledge map repository with NLP toolkits,” CITA 2023, pp. 25–36,
Springer, 2023. [18] V. T. Pham, H. D. Nguyen, T. Le, B. Nguyen, Q. H. Ngo, “Ontology-
[12] D. Dang, H.D. Nguyen, H. Ngo, et al., “Information Retrieval from based solution for building an intelligent searching system on traffic law
Legal Documents with Ontology and Graph Embeddings Approach,” documents,” Proceedings of 15th International Conference on Agents
IEA/AIE 2023, pp. 300–312, Shanghai, China, July 2023. and Artificial Intelligence (ICAART 2023), Vol. 1, Lisbon, Portugal,
[13] D. Dang, V. Pham, T. Cao, et al., “A Practical Approach to Leverage pp. 217–224, 2023, Scitepress.
Knowledge Graphs for Legal Query,” ISDS 2023, pp. 271–284, Can [19] M. Slota, J. Leite, “A unifying perspective on knowledge updates,”
Tho, Vietnam, November 2023. Proceedings of the 13th European Conference on Logics in Artificial In-
[14] Markovic´, Marko and Gostojic´, Stevan “Legal document assembly telligence(JELIA2012),Toulouse,France,pp.372–384,2012,Springer.